.TH SYSOPCTL 1 "September 2024" "sysopctl v0.1.0" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sysopctl \- A custom command for managing system resources and tasks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysopctl
[\fB--help\fR | \fB--version\fR]
[\fBservice\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIname\fR]]
[\fBsystem\fR \fIcommand\fR]
[\fBdisk\fR \fIcommand\fR]
[\fBprocess\fR \fIcommand\fR]
[\fBlogs\fR \fIcommand\fR]
[\fBbackup\fR \fIpath\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sysopctl
is a custom command-line utility for managing various system resources and tasks. It allows users to interact with system services, monitor processes, check system load, analyze logs, and backup files.
.PP
The command supports the following operations:
.TP
.BR "\-\-help"
Displays this help message.
.TP
.BR "\-\-version"
Displays the version information.
.TP
.BR "service list"
Lists all active services.
.TP
.BR "service start " <service-name>
Starts the specified service.
.TP
.BR "service stop " <service-name>
Stops the specified service.
.TP
.BR "system load"
Displays the current system load averages.
.TP
.BR "disk usage"
Displays disk usage statistics by partition.
.TP
.BR "process monitor"
Monitors system processes in real time.
.TP
.BR "logs analyze"
Analyzes and displays recent critical log entries.
.TP
.BR "backup " <path>
Backs up the specified directory using \fBrsync\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B sysopctl service list
Lists all active services on the system.
.TP
.B sysopctl system load
Displays the current system load averages.
.TP
.B sysopctl backup /home/user/data
Backs up the /home/user/data directory.
.SH AUTHOR
sysopctl was written by [Your Name].
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR df (1),
.BR top (1),
.BR rsync (1),
.BR journalctl (1)
